https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-23489 Secure clusters tech debt updates (#8239)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: secure_clusters/cert_manage.adoc

[#cert-manage]
= Managing certificates

> Maintain the integrity and trustworthiness of your cluster management environment by managing your certificates. Continue reading for information about how to refresh, replace, rotate, and list certificates.

Reviewer: "integrity" and "trustworthy" both kind of rely on a moral understanding which might make it hard to translate. What do you think of the following rewrite? 

Also, it's good to prompt our users to learn more, so what do you think of the phrase change to make it more about learning? 

```suggestion
Maintain the security and reliability of your cluster management environment by managing your certificates. Continue reading to learn how to refresh, replace, rotate, and list certificates.
```

Complete the following steps to refresh certificates managed by {acm-short}:

> . Delete the secret that is associated with the {acm-short} managed certificate. Be sure to replace `<namespace>` and `<secret>` with the values that you want to use. Run the following command:

Reviewer: word change to make it more active.

what do you think of making it two steps? I think it can be one step as they're related actions, but it does seem to be separate enough: delete then replace, so perhaps we should make them distinct steps. 

```suggestion
. Delete the secret that is associated with the {acm-short} managed certificate. 
. Replace `<namespace>` and `<secret>` with the values that you want to use. Run the following command:
```

Author: The user has to run the command to delete the secret. Replacing the namespace and secret is like a reminder to the user. I think it shouldn't be 2 separate steps.

> . Delete the secret that is associated with the {acm-short} managed certificate. Be sure to replace `<namespace>` and `<secret>` with the values that you want to use. Run the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
. Delete the secret that is associated with the {acm-short} managed certificate, and replace `<namespace>` and `<secret>` with the values that you want to use. Run the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete secret -n <namespace> <secret>
----

> . Restart the services that are associated with the {acm-short} managed certificate(s). Be sure to replace `<namespace>` and `<pod-label>` with the values for the {acm-short} managed cluster certificates. Run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Restart the services that are associated with the {acm-short} managed certificate(s). 
. Replace `<namespace>` and `<pod-label>` with the values for the {acm-short} managed cluster certificates. Run the following command:
```

> . Restart the services that are associated with the {acm-short} managed certificate(s). Be sure to replace `<namespace>` and `<pod-label>` with the values for the {acm-short} managed cluster certificates. Run the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
. Restart the services that are associated with the {acm-short} managed certificates, and replace `<namespace>` and `<pod-label>` with the values for the {acm-short} managed cluster certificates. Run the following command:
```

. Change the SAN in the `csr.cnf` configuration file with the hostname for your `alertmanager` route.

. Create the `alertmanager-byo-ca` Secret resource in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability create secret tls alertmanager-byo-ca --cert ./ca.crt --key ./ca.key
----

> . Create the `alertmanager-byo-cert` Secret in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace by running the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
. Create the `alertmanager-byo-cert` `Secret` resource in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace by running the following command:
```

. Change the SAN in the `csr.cnf` configuration file with the hostname for your `alertmanager` route.

. Create the `alertmanager-byo-ca` Secret resource in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability create secret tls alertmanager-byo-ca --cert ./ca.crt --key ./ca.key
----

. Create the `alertmanager-byo-cert` Secret in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability create secret tls alertmanager-byo-cert --cert ./ingress.crt --key ./ingress.key
----

[#rotating-the-gatekeeper-webhook-certificate]
== Rotating the Gatekeeper webhook certificate

Complete the following steps to rotate the Gatekeeper webhook certificate:

> . Edit the Secret that contains the Gatekeeper webhook certificate with the following command:

Reviewer: should "secret" be monospaced? in other docs in the observability folder, it is. For instance, in obs_custom_cert.adoc (which we link to in this PR) we document it as `Secret` so for consistency, I would do the same here: 

```suggestion
. Edit the `Secret` that contains the Gatekeeper webhook certificate with the following command:
```

Author: I agree with consistency 
```suggestion
. Edit the `Secret` resource that contains the Gatekeeper webhook certificate with the following command:
```

. Delete the following content in the `data` section: `ca.crt`, `ca.key`, `tls.crt`, and `tls.key`.

. Restart the Gatekeeper webhook service by deleting the `gatekeeper-controller-manager` pods with the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete pod -n openshift-gatekeeper-system -l control-plane=controller-manager
----

The Gatekeeper webhook certificate is rotated. 

[#verifying-cert-rotation]
== Verifying certificate rotation

Verify that your certificates are rotated to prevent system outages that can effect service communication. Complete the following steps:

. Identify the `Secret` resource that you want to check.
. Check the `tls.crt` key to verify that a certificate is available.

> . Display the certificate information. Replace `<your-secret-name>` with the name of secret that you are verifying. Run the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
. Display the certificate information. Replace `<your-secret-name>` with the name of secret that you are verifying. If it is necessary, also update the namespace and JSON path. Run the following command:
```

. Delete the following content in the `data` section: `ca.crt`, `ca.key`, `tls.crt`, and `tls.key`.

. Restart the Gatekeeper webhook service by deleting the `gatekeeper-controller-manager` pods with the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete pod -n openshift-gatekeeper-system -l control-plane=controller-manager
----

The Gatekeeper webhook certificate is rotated. 

[#verifying-cert-rotation]
== Verifying certificate rotation

Verify that your certificates are rotated to prevent system outages that can effect service communication. Complete the following steps:

> . Identify the secret that you want to check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Identify the `Secret` resource that you want to check.
```

. Check the `tls.crt` key to verify that a certificate is available.

> . Display the certificate information. Replace `<your-secret-name>` with the name of secret that you are verifying. If it is necessary, also update the namespace and JSON path. Run the following command:

Reviewer 2: remove:

> If it is necessary, also update the namespace and JSON path.

Those are hardcoded.

Author: @jacobbaungard does the user still need to run the command?

Reviewer: Agreed, reading "if it is necessary" seems unnecessary (lol) to have in a procedure. 

Maybe an optional step would be more appropriate, so the user knows they must do it, but only if applicable to them. Something like: 

```suggestion
. Display the certificate information. Replace `<your-secret-name>` with the name of `Secret` that you are verifying. 
. *Optional:* Update the namespace and JSON path by running the following command:
```

Reviewer 2: Now that I read this again, I think it was fine as it was before, apologies. Perhaps they are verifying a secret in a different namespace and then they need to update the namespace in the command.

@jc-berger the suggested change doesn't really make sense I think. Running the command doesn't "update the namespace and JSON path". The command is to show information about a specific resource at a specific namespace, in some cases they may want to verify a resource in a different namespace.

> . Display the certificate information. Replace `<your-secret-name>` with the name of secret that you are verifying. If it is necessary, also update the namespace and JSON path. Run the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
. Display the certificate information. Replace `<your-secret-name>` with the name of secret that you are verifying. Run the following command:
```

[#additional-resource-cert-manage]
== Additional resources

> - To understand service serving certificates, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.17/html/security_and_compliance/configuring-certificates#add-service-serving[Securing service traffic using service serving certificate secrets].

Reviewer 2: I am not sure how we normally handle cross-links to OCP docs. If we do not have some kind of "floating" links, we should should at least make sure to point to a OCP doc version of a supported releases (i.e OCP4.19).

Author: @jacobbaungard I understand your point. However, we link to the minimum supported version of OCP (n-2). So in this case, we would link to 4.18

> - To understand service serving certificates, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.17/html/security_and_compliance/configuring-certificates#add-service-serving[Securing service traffic using service serving certificate secrets].

Author: ```suggestion
- To understand service serving certificates, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html/security_and_compliance/configuring-certificates#add-service-serving[Securing service traffic using service serving certificate secrets].
```
